# Weather App Using AI Tools

The goal is to develop AI tools to continuously monitor the environmental data and provide suitable visuals and inferences from the past as well as current state of the environment. The 4 features essential for this problem are air quality, water pollution level, deforestation rate and climate pattern. 
Four different models were trained to cover each of these topics exhaustively. The air quality index depends on the amount of air pollutants ranging from several harmful gases to particulate matter. A model consisting of 4 layers (input, output and 2 hidden) and fed with data from Central Pollution Control Board, India was trained. Water pollution level is determined by parameters such as ph level, turbidity, presence of solid and elemental impurities, conductivity and hardness. Data was collected from CPCB and 2 different models were trained, XGBoost and Keras, mainly for comparison. Finally, XGBoost was deployed as its accuracy was found to be better in this case. To ascertain deforestation rate, it is best to monitor satellite pictures of a certain area over time and determine rate of decrease in greener patches. As there was no publicly available useful dataset for the problem, I used a dataset from Kaggle and took advantage of inbuilt GPU available. Climate change is basically associated with variation in temperature level. For this section, I took data which displayed trend of changing temperature over time in India. 2 regression models were trained on the dataset containing average temperature in India from 1796. The other dataset consisting of global temperature values was trained on XGBoost algorithm to predict average temperature given minimum and maximum temperatures of the previous year. 
An application was eventually built on top of these showing various trends and plots from the model and allowing user to check the state of the weather based on these four sections.   